what I wish I knew when I started my
blog I look back at my early blog posts
and I was wondering what the heck was I
doing but the reality is that's what
most bloggers grow to when they look at
their older content they realize that
they could have just done so many more
things to improve they look at what went
wrong what they should have done instead
and they're like man if I can go back in
time and I had a time machine and I knew
what I knew now back then I would just
be so much better off so do you want to
know what I would do differently here
are the top things that I would change
if I was starting today number one pick
the right size Niche now a lot of people
say the riches are in the niches that's
not true if you look at the biggest
companies out there that go after big
market caps it's called Tam total
addressable Market you want to go after
a really big Market because it's easier
to capture one percent of a really
gigantic Market than it is to capture 60
70 80 percent of a really tiny market
and yes when you're going after blogging
about a big Market you can start with a
niche but that Niche should be able to
expand it to a much bigger Market here's
what I mean by that when I started off I
just wanted to blog about really small
niches like conversion optimization now
over time I learned that there's nothing
wrong about blogging about conversion
rate optimization or Google analytics or
SEO but all encompasses into what's
called marketing as you know so
marketing is a big time conversion rate
optimization not that big SEO it's not a
bad size tab but paid advertising much
bigger town so if you focus on Niche
that can expand into a much bigger tab
you are good but if you go after a niche
that can't be expanded into a bigger
Town you're kind of screwed for example
if you go into a niche like best man
speeches what are you going to expand
into best bridesmaid speeches the
Market's still really really tiny
there's not that much more for you to
make from that that Niche can't really
be expanded into a big Market you need
to think about the market from day one
that way you you can get more blog
traffic small niches don't get that much
search traffic big niches get much more
traffic big times get massive amount of
traffic two don't limit what platform
you use Harvard Business Review observe
the shopping behavior of 46 000
customers and found that around 73
percent of consumers before shopping
through multiple channels use the
omnichannel approach to promote your
content it's not about just promote your
content for Google I use stories on
Instagram and tell people to swipe up to
read my blog post I share my blog
content on Twitter I share my blog
content on LinkedIn I share it on
Facebook as well I don't care if people
say a social network is popular not
popular like Reddit I share it
everywhere why something is better than
nothing even if something drives me five
clicks that's better than nothing
Three Links are everything when you post
on Facebook LinkedIn or Instagram or
YouTube always link back to your blog
post why it gets you more traffic
there's nothing wrong with that now if
you're posting video content there's no
need for a link back but with your blog
content if you want people to come back
to your site post a link it's simple
it's easy even though these platforms
want you to keep people on there every
once in a while putting a blog post Link
in there helps drive more traffic four
do what you can to stand out don't just
stick with Big Blocks of text 32 percent
of marketers believe that visuals are
the most important type of content that
their business creates so you need to
create amazing visuals and integrate
them within your blog post I started
doing infographics later in my blogging
career and that provided so much value
started getting way more social shares
and backlinks and I started getting way
more SEO juice as well five I learned
this the hard way I used to keep
creating new content okay week after
week after week and a lot of times my
traffic wouldn't go up what I wish I
knew was that you need to actually spend
more time updating your content don't
just keep producing new content because
there's already a ton of regurgitated
old content on the web keep your content
fresh and updated like Wikipedia does
that's how you continue rank higher just
think about it for whatever search room
you search for there's a high chance
that Wikipedia ranks for it why because
their content is continually fresh and
up to date
six and this is a big mistake that I
made don't blog on the same topic over
and over again if I'm creating an
article on online marketing I wouldn't
have an article on how to get started
with online marketing and a second one
about beginner's guide to online
marketing and a third one about online
marketing basics
those three blog posts are pretty much
about the same thing that confuses
Google on which one they should rank for
the term online marketing and variations
for that term instead they want you to
have one detailed post on online
marketing instead of five posts that
talk about the same thing again it goes
back to Wikipedia they have more
detailed longer pages on the topic
instead of six or seven pages on the
same thing because that confuses Google
on which ones they should rank
number seven last but not least when I
started out blogging I didn't understand
that you need to be consistent when you
keep producing content each and every
single week you get more traffic the
moment you stop being consistent and
when I looked at the data from years and
years ago when I took some months off it
would take me even if I took one month
off with my last block correct Sprout it
took me more than three months to
recuperate my traffic from having to
block consistently that's why it's so
important for you to be consistent as
well or else you'll lose your traffic
and it's hard to get it back it'll
actually take you more time to get that
traffic back if you need help with your
content marketing check out my Ad Agency
NP digital where we help companies like
yours grow if you enjoy this post like
it share it tell the people about it
thank you very much